The Kurukshetra War was, according to the Indian epic itihas Mahabharata, a conflict that arose from a dynastic succession struggle between two groups of cousins of an Indo-Aryan kingdom called Kuru, the Kauravas and Pandavas, for the throne of Hastinapura. It involved a number of ancient kingdoms participating as allies of the rival groups.
The location of the battle was Kurukshetra in the modern state of Haryana in India. The conflict is believed to form an essential component of an ancient work called Jaya and hence the epic Mahabharata.
Mahabharat states that the war started on Kartheeka Bahula Amavasya (end of the Kartheeka and the start of the Margasira lunar month), moon on Jyesta star, on Tuesday early morning. Solar eclipse also happened on that day and this Muhurth was kept by SriKrishna himself.
Bhagavatgeeta was told on that early morning before the war began. War lasted only eighteen days during which vast armies from all over the Indian (Bharatha) Subcontinent fought alongside the two rivals. Despite only referring to these eighteen days, the war narrative forms more than a quarter of the book, suggesting its relative importance within the epic, which overall spans decades of the warring families.
Incidentally the parvas in Mahabharata are eighteen and the total number of army participated in the war are eighteen Akshauhinis.
The narrative describes individual battles of various heroes of both sides, battle-field deaths of some of the prominent heroes, military formations employed on each day by both armies, war diplomacy, meetings and discussions among the heroes and commanders before commencement of war on each day and the weapons used.
The chapters (parvas) dealing with the war (from chapter six to ten) are considered amongst the oldest in the entire Mahabharat.
The Kurukshetra War is believed to date variously from 6000 BCE to 500 BCE, based on the astronomical and literary information from Mahabharata. The history of the Kurukshetra War is also traced to the Battle of the Ten Kings mentioned in Rigveda

The Kurukshetra War lasted eighteen days. It was fought only during daylight hours,fighting ceased at sunset.
Each day the battle was characterised by numerous individual combats, as well as mass raids against entire enemy divisions.
The victor or the vanquished on each day was determined not by any territories gained, but by the body count.
This was a war to the death. The victor was the survivor. If the text is taken to be chronologically accurate, this was bloodiest wars in the history of mankind.
Arjuna, in a fit of extreme anger over the death of his son Abhimanyu, alone killed one akshauhini of Kaurava soldiers in a single day.
The war left an extremely large number of widows and orphans and led to an economic depression and the beginning of Kali Yuga.

lingam evasrama-khyatav
anyonyapatti-karanam
avrttya nyaya-daurbalyam
panditye capalam vacah

A person’s spiritual position will be ascertained merely according to external symbols, and on that same basis people will change from one spiritual order to the next.
A person’s propriety will be seriously questioned if he does not earn a good living.
And one who is very clever at juggling words will be considered a learned scholar.

vittam eva kalau nrnam
janmacara-gunodayah
dharma-nyaya-vyavasthayam
karanam balam eva hi

In Kali-yuga, wealth alone will be considered the sign of a man’s good birth, proper behavior and fine qualities.
And law and justice will be applied only on the basis of one’s power